What is the correct or the respectful way to pronounce
Afghanistan of Afghanistan? I,
I ran Iran. So as a Russian speaker of Stan.
Yeah, the on versus the Anne. Yeah. Is it, uh,
different con true by country as an English speaker in America? Yeah.
Is it pretentious and disrespectful to say Afghanistan or is it
the opposite respectful to say it that way? What,
what are your thoughts on that? That's.
A fascinating question. Um, I defer to the people from those countries to,
before sort out those politics. I think, you know,
I think one of the fascinating things about this,
the region broadly is that it is a place of so many cultures and,
and really quite cosmopolitan.
So I think people are mostly quite forgiving about how you say Afghanistan,
Afghanistan. It's not like Paris.
<Laugh> yeah, yeah. Right, right. The French are not forgiving.
No, no, no. Yeah, exactly. No. I think people are very,
very forgiving and I think that, you know, Iranians are a bit, you know,
more instructive in suggesting Iran rather than Iran. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I Iraq, Iraq, you know, I, I, I think there's, there's,
there's come to be a fit between certain ways of P in these places and
the position that Americans take about them. Right.
So it's more jarring when people say Iraq
and it comes with, you know, a claim that a certain kind of person, you know,
should be the victim of violence or, yeah. So.
Does that, yeah, it's kind of like, uh,
talking about the democratic party or the democratic party it's says sometimes
using certain kind of terminology to make a little bit of a
sort of, uh, implied statement about your beliefs. That's fascinating.
Yeah. I mean, I think when I hear Iraq and Iran, I mean, I think it, yeah.
Is it intentional in the case of Democrat or is it just a, you know,
and whatever, I think again,
I think most Iranians and Afghans people I know have,
have been very cool about that. What annoys Afghans. Now I can say,
I think it's fair to say. I,
I don't mean to speak for mm-hmm <affirmative> means people tiger people,
but I can just share with our, our non Afghan friends, um,
the term Afghan E uh, is,
is a kind of term of offense because that's the name of the currency.
And so lots people ask, you know, why having, especially,
again, it's more addicted Americans because, you know,
we've been so deeply involved in that country, obviously for the last 20 years.
Right. So Afghans ask why after 20 years,
are you still calling us the wrong name? What.
Is the right name?
Somebody, they, they prefer Afghans, Afghans. Yeah.
And AF and AF Afghan E is the name of the currency. And so I just.
Dodged a book cause I was gonna say, that's cool. Yeah. I hear you.
That's really great to know.
Yeah. Yeah. And it's, and it's again, I think,
but I would emphasize that people are quite open and, and you know, it's a,
it's a whole region of incredible diversity and,
and respect for linguistic pluralism actually. So I think that, you know,
but I also appreciate that during, in this context, um,
when there's a lot of pain, you know,
in the Afghan Dipa community in particular, you know,
being called the wrong name after 20 years when they already feel so betrayed at
this moment, you know, just kind of, if one follows us on social media,
that is one kind of, um, hot wire.
Right? Yeah.
So the reason I ask about pronunciation is because yes,
it is true that there are certain things when mispronounced kind of reveal that
you don't care enough to pronounce correctly. Right.
You don't know enough to pronounce correctly. Right.
And you dismiss the culture and the people,
which I think that's right as per your writing is something that
if it's okay, I'll go with Afghanistan. Yeah. Just because I'm used to,
I say I Iraq, Iran, but I say Afghanistan. Yeah. Yeah. That's great.
Is as you do in your writing, uh,
Afghanistan suffers from much misunderstanding from the rest of the world.